[DOCS] Update remote cluster docs (#77043)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/modules/remote-clusters.asciidoc

[[remote-clusters]]
== Remote clusters
You can connect a local cluster to other {es} clusters, known as _remote
clusters_. Remote clusters can be located in different datacenters or 
geographic regions, and contain indices or data streams that can be replicated

> or searched by a local cluster. You can use remote clusters in {ccr} and {ccs}.

Author: I like where you're headed with this change. I'll leave out the links because they exist in the following paragraphs, but I'll update to read:
>Remote clusters can be located in different datacenters or  geographic regions, and contain indices or data streams that can be replicated with {ccr} or searched by a local cluster using {ccs}.

With <<xpack-ccr,{ccr}>>, you index data to a leader index, which is 

> replicated to one or more read-only follower indices on a remote cluster.

Author: Good catch! I mixed my terms. I'll revise this to read:
>With <<xpack-ccr,{ccr}>>, you ingest data to an index on a remote cluster. This  _leader_ index is replicated to one or more read-only _follower_ indices on your local cluster.

Creating a multi-cluster architecture with {ccr} enables you to configure
disaster recovery, bring data closer to your users, or establish a centralized 
reporting cluster to process reports locally.

<<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs-cap}>> enables you to run a search request 
against one or more remote clusters. This capability provides each region
with a global view of all clusters, allowing you to send a search request from
a local cluster and return results from all connected remote clusters. 

Connected remote clusters effectively form a single security domain, where users 
with administrative privileges in one cluster have those privileges in _all_ 
connected clusters. This behavior means that you can't restrict a user's access 
to a specific remote cluster. To use {ccr} or {ccs} safely with remote clusters, 

> <<remote-clusters-security,enable security>> on all connected clusters and

Author: I tried to distill this information into a few sentences -- please let me know if it's too verbose:
>When connecting a local cluster to a remote clusters, an {es} superuser (such as the `elastic` user) gains total read access to the remote clusters. Furthermore, a local user with administrative privileges at the 
operating system level can alter `elasticsearch.yml`. A malicious user with these privileges has potential access to private keys that could give them the ability to take over a remote cluster. To use {ccr} and {ccs} safely with remote 
clusters, <<remote-clusters-security,enable security>> on all connected clusters  and configure Transport Layer Security (TLS) on at least the transport level on every node.

> <<remote-clusters-security,enable security>> on all connected clusters and

Reviewer: I'd like to make a few changes for the first 3 sentences as follows:

> Connected remote clusters effectively form a single security domain. A local {es} superuser (such as the elastic user) gains total read access to the remote clusters. Furthermore, a operating system level adminstrator can potentially take over a remote cluster if it has access to private keys and config files of the local cluster. 

Before advising enabling security in the last sentence, I think we should wrap up the above by emphasizing that we should treat local and remote cluster with equal importance when it comes to security (because they are effectively a single security domain). I'll leave it to you to paraphrasing. Thanks.

> <<remote-clusters-security,enable security>> on all connected clusters and

Author: I've modified this section as follows:

> Enabling and configuring security is important on both local and remote clusters. When connecting a local cluster to remote clusters, an {es} superuser (such as the `elastic` user) gains total read access to the remote clusters. Furthermore, a local user with administrative privileges at the operating system level can alter `elasticsearch.yml`. A malicious user with these privileges has potential access to private keys that could give them the ability to take over a remote cluster. To use CCR and CCS safely, enable security on all connected clusters and configure Transport Layer Security (TLS) on at least the transport level on every node.

You can connect a local cluster to other {es} clusters, known as _remote
clusters_. Remote clusters can be located in different datacenters or 
geographic regions, and contain indices or data streams that can be replicated
with {ccr} or searched by a local cluster using {ccs}.

With <<xpack-ccr,{ccr}>>, you ingest data to an index on a remote cluster. This 
_leader_ index is replicated to one or more read-only _follower_ indices on your local cluster. Creating a multi-cluster architecture with {ccr} enables you to 
configure disaster recovery, bring data closer to your users, or establish a 
centralized reporting cluster to process reports locally.

<<modules-cross-cluster-search,{ccs-cap}>> enables you to run a search request 
against one or more remote clusters. This capability provides each region
with a global view of all clusters, allowing you to send a search request from
a local cluster and return results from all connected remote clusters. 

Enabling and configuring security is important on both local and remote
clusters. When connecting a local cluster to remote clusters, an {es} 
superuser (such as the `elastic` user) gains total read access to the remote 

> clusters. Furthermore, a local user with administrative privileges at the 
> operating system level can alter `elasticsearch.yml`. A malicious user with
> these privileges has potential access to private keys that could give them the 
> ability to take over a remote cluster. To use {ccr} and {ccs} safely, 

Reviewer: It still does not read straightforward to me because it seems to suggest "alter elasticsearch.yml" is a reason for having "potential access to private keys". But these two things are separate. Maybe it's just me? I'd suggest the following change:

```suggestion
clusters. Furthermore, a local administrator at the operating system level with sufficient access 
to Elasticsearch config files and private keys can potentially take over a remote cluster. To use {ccr} and {ccs} safely, 
```

Also, I wonder whether we should take this sentence out from here because Enabing security at the Elasticsearch level does not help mitigating this threat. I think we can move it to the end of this paragraph after we finishing talking about ES level security first, something like:

> Enabling and configuring security is important on both local and remote clusters. When connecting a local cluster to remote clusters, an Elasticsearch superuser (such as the elastic user) gains total read access to the remote clusters. To use cross-cluster replication and cross-cluster search safely, enable security on all connected clusters and configure Transport Layer Security (TLS) on at least the transport level on every node. Furthermore, a local administrator at the operating system level with sufficient access to Elasticsearch config files and private keys can potentially take over a remote cluster. **Therefore you should treat the operating system level security for both clusters with equal importance.**

I added the sentence in bold as a very generic advice for OS level security. Otherwise, it feels that we raise an issue without offering any recommendation. Please feel free to paraphrase.

Author: I split this information into two paragraphs:

> Enabling and configuring security is important on both local and remote
> clusters. When connecting a local cluster to remote clusters, an {es} superuser
> (such as the `elastic` user) on the local cluster gains total read access to the
> remote clusters. To use {ccr} and {ccs} safely, 
> <<remote-clusters-security,enable security>> on all connected clusters 
> and configure Transport Layer Security (TLS) on at least the transport level on
> every node.
> 
> Furthermore, a local administrator at the operating system level
> with sufficient access to {es} configuration files and private keys can
> potentially take over a remote cluster. Ensure that your security strategy
> includes securing local _and_ remote clusters at the operating system level.

The proxy mode is not the default connection mode and must be configured. Similar
to the sniff <<gateway-nodes-selection,gateway nodes>>, the remote
connections are subject to the same version compatibility rules as
<<rolling-upgrades,rolling upgrades>>.

include::cluster/remote-clusters-connect.asciidoc[]
include::../../../x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/remote-clusters-privileges.asciidoc[]

> include::cluster/remote-clusters-security.asciidoc[]

Author: Yes, I'll move it to the first position in the hierarchy.
